# Why you should be careful with IPOs

1. IPOs always come in an expensive market. In fact, to know if the market is expensive, look for the number of IPOs. More the number of IPOs, more expensive the market. This is because the companies wait till the rates get high so as to earn maximum profits.
2. IPOs are so popular because companies hires merchant banking companies who publicises the IPO and promises large investments. Even though there are thousands of companies already listed, market is attracted towards IPOs as a result of publicity.
3. 70% of the IPOs trade less than their IPO price after one year. So there is 70% chance, that you’ll face loss if you invest in an IPO. Many investors invest in IPOs for the so called “listing gains”. That is, on the day when the IPO begins trading, its prices go very high. The truth however is that more than half of the IPOs trade below their IPO price, even on their listing day. Thus, there is a 50% chance that you’ll face loss on listing day. But only those IPOs are highlighted in media, which trade positively. Still there are some companies which trade positively on listing day, and can offer 20 to 30% profit. This happens only in IPOs which are over-subscribed. That is, for instance, for 10 shares listed by the company, 1000 people have applied. And since so many people apply for so less number of shares, you probably won’t even get a share. And even if you do, you’ll get one share if you’d have applied for ten. A retail investor can apply for a maximum of ₹2 lacs worth of shares. If the demand is high, you’ll get shares worth ₹15-20k. Even if the prices increase on the listing day, you’ll hardly earn ₹2-3k; which is a very low profit in comparison with the risk involved.

Thus, there is a high probability that the prices won’t increase on the listing day, and even higher probability that they won’t increase in a year or two. You may get trapped in the share for years. For example, shares of Reliance Power weren’t even able to reach its IPO price for 10 fucking years!
