# Circuit

Circuit Breakers are volatility safeguard set in place by [[SEBI]] for the investors, which direct how much can a share price or index fluctuate - in order to prevent traders from single-day drastic and reactive share price fluctuations.

- The limit may be set at a figure – represented by a percentage – as determined by the stock market. It may be anywhere between 2% and 20%. A stock's price can thus, only move within this band.
- These circuit filters are based on last day's closing price of the stock and can be found on the stock exchange website.
- Circuit breakers are also set on indices

## Upper and Lower limits

- **Upper Circuit**: Highest possible value a stock can trade on a particular day. If a stock hits its upper circuit, there will be only buyers and no sellers.
- **Lower Circuit**: Lowest possible value a stock can have on a given trading day. If a stock hits its lower circuit, there will be only sellers and no buyers in the stock.

## What Happens when a stock hits circuit limit

Trading is stopped (also, is not possible) on that stock for that day. The intraday trades are converted to delivery trade.

## What Happens when an index hits circuit limit

Circuit breaker system raises red flags when an index dips or rises by 10%, 15% or 20%.

### 10%

- Before 1 pm: 45-minute pause on trading activity.
- 1-2:30 pm: 15-minute pause on trading activity.
- After 2:30: Nothing happens. High end of the trading day volatility.

### 15%

- Before 1 pm: 1 hour 45 minutes pause on trading activity.
- 1-2:30 pm: 45-minute pause on trading activity.
- After 2:30: Trading activity haulted for remainder of the day.

### 20%

Trading activity is ceased for the day if an index rises or falls by 20% at any point of the day.

## Circuit as red flag

- If a stock frequently hits circuit, or its circuit is being frequently revised, it is a sign that exchange is concerned about the stock's trading activity.
- Very little volatility indicates low earning potential

## References

- [What is the Upper and Lower Circuit](https://www.angelone.in/knowledge-center/intraday-trading/what-is-the-upper-and-lower-circuit)
- [What will happen to my intraday (MIS/CO) position in case the stock circuit limits are hit? - Zerodha](https://support.zerodha.com/category/trading-and-markets/product-and-order-types/product/articles/circuit-limit-hit-intraday-product-type)

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[SEBI]: notes/SEBI.md "SEBI"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"